Feat: Add new performance testing results doc for Gateway 3.6 (#6928)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/production/performance/performance-testing.md

---
title: Performance testing benchmarks
content_type: reference
description: This documentation provides a comprehensive guide for conducting Kong Gateway performance testing using Kong's test suite, including Kong's own benchmark for the current version.
---

> As of {{site.base_gateway}} 3.6.x, Kong now publishes performance results on {{site.base_gateway}}, along with the test methodology and details. Kong will conduct and publish {{site.base_gateway}} performance results for each subsequent minor release.

Author: I haven't gotten a response, so I'll just comment it out for now.

* **Test use cases**: 
    * Basic {{site.base_gateway}} proxy
    * [Rate limiting](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting/) a request with no authentication
    * Authentication using the [basic auth plugin](/hub/kong-inc/basic-auth/) and rate limiting
    * Authentication using the [key auth plugin](/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) and rate limiting
* **Routes and consumers**: Each case was tested with two different options: one with one route and one consumer, and one with 100 routes and 100 consumers, for a total of eight test cases. For test cases that didn't require authentication, no consumers were used.
* **Traffic distribution**: Normal distribution across both routes and consumers
* **Protocol**: HTTPS only
* **Sample size**: Each test case was run five times, each for a duration of 15 minutes. The results are an average of the five different test runs.

### {{site.base_gateway}} performance benchmark results

{% if_version eq:3.6.x %}

| Test type               | Number of routes/consumers  | Requests per second (RPS) | P99 (ms) | P95 (ms) |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------- | -------- | -------- |

> | Basic Kong Proxy        | 1 route, 0 consumers       | 137850.4                  | 6.25     | 3.82     |
> | Basic Kong Proxy        | 100 routes, 0 consumers    | 132302.8                  | 6.55     | 3.99     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Basic Kong proxy        | 1 route, 0 consumers       | 137850.4                  | 6.25     | 3.82     |
| Basic Kong proxy        | 100 routes, 0 consumers    | 132302.8                  | 6.55     | 3.99     |
```
Maybe "Kong proxy with no plugins"?

| Rate limit and no auth | 1 route, 0 consumers       | 116413.8                  | 7.59     | 4.56     |
| Rate limit and no auth    | 100 routes, 0 consumers    | 111615.8                  | 7.62     | 4.54     |
| Rate limit and key auth   | 1 route, 1 consumer         | 102261.6                  | 8.47     | 5.05     |
| Rate limit and key auth   | 100 routes, 100 consumers   | 96289.6                   | 8.82     | 5.25     |
| Rate limit and basic auth | 1 route, 1 consumer         | 95297.8                   | 8.75     | 5.66     |
| Rate limit and basic auth | 100 routes, 100 consumers   | 89777.4                   | 9.34     | 5.89     |
{% endif_version %}

### Test environment

Kong runs these tests in AWS using EC2 machines. We used [Kubernetes taints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) to ensure that {{site.base_gateway}} is on its own node while the load testing and observability tools are on their own separate nodes in the same cluster.

> The {{site.base_gateway}} runs on a single dedicated instance of c5.4xlarge, and the two nodes for the observability stack and K6 ran on dedicated c5.metal instances. We used the metal instances for the observability load generation toolchain to ensure they are not resource constrained in any way. Since [K6 is very resource demanding](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/running-large-tests/#hardware-considerations) when generating a high amount of traffic during tests, we observed that using smaller or less powerful instances for the toolchain caused the observability load generation tools to be a bottleneck for {{site.base_gateway}} performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{site.base_gateway}} runs on a single dedicated instance of c5.4xlarge, and the two nodes for the observability stack and K6 run on dedicated c5.metal instances. We use the metal instances for the observability load generation toolchain to ensure they are not resource constrained in any way. Since [K6 is very resource demanding](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/running-large-tests/#hardware-considerations) when generating a high amount of traffic during tests, we observed that using smaller or less powerful instances for the toolchain caused the observability load generation tools to be a bottleneck for {{site.base_gateway}} performance.
```
Verb tense agreement. Maybe they should all be past tense? Either way, this needs to be checked throughout the section focusing on the test that we conducted.
